Now in the last lesson we learned how to add our add item to cart mutation to our collection item.
We're now able to populate our cart dropdown which is listening to our car items local state on our
Polo client but we need to also display the total quantity of items in our cart inside of our cart icon.
Now you might already have an inkling of how to do this.
But how do you actually attach it's you make sure that every time we add an item this count is also
increasing.
While unlike redux we don't have selectors that will depend on these other values so that whenever they
update our values also update.
That's a very redux like pattern.
Instead what we have to do is we have to make sure to write it inside of our mutation itself that is
doing the actual modification to the cart.
So let me show you inside of our client our right deck data.
We're going to make a new variable here called cart or let's just call it item count and this by default
will be zero.
Now the item count is going to literally be the count of the total items and for us we just have to
make sure that we update it whenever we add clear or remove items.
Right.
We've got to make sure that we always we compute this value.
Now how we're going to do this is we are going to modify our resolve to add item to cart code so that
it knows to do that.
And this is actually very easy.
It sounds more complicated than is all we have to do is we have to first bring in the code that actually
calculates quantity from our selector.
So inside of our cart selector we had our select core items count.
We just have to copy this over and what we'll do is we'll move it into our cart utilize so here we'll
make a new function called Get cart quantity or get cart item count and this is going to get the items
as the argument and it's just going to return an integer.
So now we're just going to copy this over into our resolves
and then we're also going to add in this value as a query.
So we're gonna say concept yet item count is equal to GQ Well and as you expect it's just going to get
the item count from the client.
Let me just make sure I don't know yet.
No we're fine.
I thought I accidentally capitalized the I.
So now that we have our item count what we're going to do is we are just going to make sure that we
pluck it off inside of our add to cart as well.
So here will say is that we want to also read down or set the value right.
We don't need to read it inside of the item.
Add to Cart.
We just want to make sure that we set it every time the item gets increased.
So what we'll do is we will write in this new function where we say cash not write query where what
we pass to it is our query for it.
Get item count and then the data that we're gonna set is equal to this object where item count goes
to get item count and then we're gonna pass in our new car items and now what happens is that when ever
the item gets added to the cart.
So whenever this mutation fires it will also make sure to update our item count query.
That's all this is doing.
So now we're writing two different queries inside of one mutation let's just make sure to pull that
query into our cart icon so inside of our car icon container we are already using the mutation.
We just also need to use the query to pull that item count into our car item component so here will
say const get item count is equal to GQ El with this object of item count off the client and just like
we did before.
We just have to make sure to wrap our mutation inside of our query where the query goes to get item
count
and then we also have to make sure that inside of our mutation we are properly wrapping this whole thing
so that when we get back our data from this function.
All right.
Sorry.
From this query as a function we can say that the data gives us the item count
which we then want to pass into our Karp icon
and now let's just make sure that in our car icon that's actually the property that it's expecting which
is item count.
So now we can actually remove its connection to state here remove our map states of props and remove
all of these selectors and now if we go back to our app we'll see that the number is updating as expected
and that's pretty much the majority of the kind of mutations that we're going to right now.
There is one last thing I want to show you.
So what I'm going to show you is actually a way where you can use the higher order component pattern
to compose out this container in a way that looks way more similar to the Connect function that we're
used to using with react readings.
So what we're going to do is we're actually going to pull in the compose function and the graph Q all
function so these are actually two functions that we can use in place of the query and the mutation
components that we just explored in all these last few lessons.
Now this pattern is going to look way closer to what we're used to earth react redux because we're able
to pass in the query and mutation values that we get from these functions in as prompt since that.
So let me show you how to do that.
So let's first get rid of these query and these mutation components inside of our code and what we're
going to do is we are going to call composed in the very similar way as how we called Connect now we're
going to pass our car icon container to the return of this compose which will of course be a function
that will group in all of these queries and mutations that we're trying to add to our car icon.
And in order to do that we have to use this graph que el function that we just import.
Now I'm going to post for you the docs for this graph.
You all function.
There's a lot you can do with it.
But the main thing that it does is it takes mutations and queries and it binds them to some component
that we can pass as the outcome of that function because it is a higher order component function.
And as we've already explored with them they're pretty much just functions that take components and
then amplify them with some additional behavior.
In this case the additional behavior is the props and access to either query properties or mutation
properties.
So what we need to do in order to use it is we simply call graph Q Well and we pass it either a mutation
or query.
So let's first pass in our Get item count.
With that we'll now have access to our data object inside of the props that this container gets.
And that data will have our item count property the same way that we saw whenever we wrote our query
function inside of our query component.
Now the interesting thing about this graph queue I'll toggle card hidden value though is when we pass
in toggle card hidden it will actually give us that mutation as a prop.
The only thing is that mutation by default is not called whatever the actual mutations name is that
we're plucking from this GQ Elle query string.
Instead it's going to call it mutate.
Now we don't want that.
We want it to be named after something that we expect it to do right.
We expect it to toggle cart hit it.
So in order for us to do that we can actually pass in a configuration object as the second argument
to this graph.
You all function now this second argument can take a number of different configuration options which
you'll find in the documentation that I've linked in your resources.
But the main one that we want to access is name and for name we're just going to say toggle cart hit
it that's all it is right.
It's a property called name and it expects a string which you will then set as the actual name of the
prop that gets passed in for this mutation we can do the same thing here for graph q l of our get item
count as well if say we wanted this mutation named not to be called sorry if we wanted this query to
not be called data and we wanted it to be called item count data we could do that as well especially
when we start using multiple queries and multiple mutations we're going to want to use this name object
property right as this configuration because then we'll be able to pluck the values off of all of these
different props that are going to be passed into our props of our component with this what we'll see
is actually the prompts so I'm actually going to show you what this prompts object looks like first
before we start D structuring off the values that we meet so let's just get rid of this because it will
break otherwise let's save this go back to our app and here we see we get both this data object as well
as our toggle hard hitting mutation as a function.
Now this data object is large and you probably won't see others actually you do see the item count.
So there you see the data right it has all these other things that we can do with it if we wanted to
trigger other actions that are actually way more verbose than we need but we see the item count so all
we want to do is we want to pluck off the item count from our data
and we also want to pluck off our toggle cart hit it so with this we are now accessing both our total
car hit a mutation as well as our item count if we save this and we go back we see that our application
still works as it did before our car icon behaves the way that we expected to it toggles car hit and
with that mutation and it has the item count as the actual query value.
So this pattern is probably way more familiar to you.
As far as how it looks with react redux now I will mention that the Apollo team seems to be pushing
harder for using the query and the mutation components that we did earlier.
But honestly I think this pattern is perfectly fine.
How are the components is a pattern that has been around in the react ecosystem for a really long time
and it's really well fleshed out especially with redux.
But again it's really up to you whatever you prefer component method is way more similar to the context
API style of adding in components and nesting your component tree appropriately and this composed pattern
is just the higher order component pattern.
Personally I do prefer this compose pattern because it looks closer to what I'm used to working with
but you can use either or if you have components that only need the one query or the one mutation component.
Feel free to use that.
It's only when you start meeting to nest the multiple mutations and multiple queries that it's obvious
that the compose pattern is way better and simpler to use now you might be wondering should I instead
move this compose into car icon because this container is literally just almost like another layer here
that just plucks this data and we're just passing this in.
Well you can but personally I prefer still keeping this container because this container layer is the
one that D structures off the item count as well as the toggle cart hidden and then passes it into toggle
cart hidden.
This allows my car icon component to be a presentational component whereas the container layers are
the ones that actually care about what to do with the car icon and how it ends up actually getting the
data this way.
If I needed this card icon in multiple places that might rely on multiple different queries in order
to get their item count.
I don't know it's a possibility.
My car icon does not have to care about how that data comes in it simply cares about when it finally
gets the added value.
So this container style you can even do in your react redux co 2 instead of putting compose inside of
our components as we did.
We can make a new container files but it does increase more complexity and it increases the number of
files.
So there's always tradeoffs but hopefully now you're fully equipped with everything you need in order
to convert the rest of the application over to using the Apollo clients local storage.
So definitely give it a try.
Re watch these videos if you need to get a refresher on how everything works.
Otherwise I have included both a get hub repo as to everything that we've done up until this point as
well as a get hub repo that has the completed version of this application using solutions that I've
come up with.
So you can compare your solutions to mine.
I'm not saying mine are necessarily the best.
It's just how I would do them.
Those are the tradeoffs that I have decided to make.
And in the next lesson we'll wrap up this section on graph Q all on Apollo and I'll leave you with some
of my final thoughts.